---
draft: false
date: 2024-05-02
authors:
  - rfernandezdo
categories:
    - Azure Services
tags:
    - Azure Container Registry
---
# Azure Container Registry: Artifact Cache

Azure Container Registry is a managed, private Docker registry service provided by Microsoft. It allows you to build, store, and manage container images and artifacts in a secure environment. 

## What is Artifact Caching?

Artifact Cache is a feature in Azure Container Registry that allows users to cache container images in a private container registry. It is available in Basic, Standard, and Premium service tiers.

### Benefits of Artifact Cache
- **Reliable pull operations**: Faster pulls of container images are achievable by caching the container images in ACR.
- **Private networks**: Cached registries are available on private networks.
- **Ensuring upstream content is delivered**: Artifact Cache allows users to pull images from the local ACR instead of the upstream registry.

## Limitations
Cache will only occur after at least one image pull is complete on the available container image

## How to Use Artifact Cache in Azure Container Registry without credential?

Let's take a look at how you can implement artifact caching in Azure Container Registry.

### Step 1: Create a Cache Rule

The first step is to create a cache rule in your Azure Container Registry. This rule specifies the source image that should be cached and the target image that will be stored in the cache.

```bash
az acr cache create -r MyRegistry -n MyRule -s docker.io/library/ubuntu -t ubuntu
```

Check the cache rule:

```bash
az acr cache show -r MyRegistry -n MyRule
```

### Step 2: Pull the Image

Next, you need to pull the image from the source registry to the cache. This will download the image and store it in the cache for future use.

```bash
docker pull myregistry.azurecr.io/hello-world:latest
```


### Step 3: Clean up the resources

Finally, you can clean up the resources by deleting the cache rule.

```bash
az acr cache delete -r MyRegistry -n MyRule
```

If you need to check other rules, you can use the following command:

```bash
az acr cache list -r MyRegistry
```

## Conclusion

Azure Container Registry's Artifact Cache feature provides a convenient way to cache container images in a private registry, improving pull performance and reducing network traffic. By following the steps outlined in this article, you can easily set up and use artifact caching in your Azure Container Registry.

If you need to use the cache with authentication, you can use the following article: [Enable Artifact Cache with authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/tutorial-enable-artifact-cache-auth-cli).

For more detailed information, please visit the [official tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/tutorial-artifact-cache) on the Microsoft Azure website.


## References

- [Azure Container Registry Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/)
- [Azure Container Artifact Cache Overview](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/tutorial-artifact-cache)