---
draft: false
date: 2024-09-20
authors:
  - rfernandezdo
categories:
    - Azure

tags:    
    - Microsoft Defender for Storage
---

# Microsoft Defender for Storage

Microsoft Defender for Storage is part of the Microsoft Defender for Cloud suite of security solutions.

## Introduction

Microsoft Defender for Storage is a cloud-native security solution that provides advanced threat protection for your Azure Storage accounts. 

Microsoft Defender for Storage provides comprehensive security by analyzing the data plane and control plane telemetry generated by Azure Blob Storage, Azure Files, and Azure Data Lake Storage services. It uses advanced threat detection capabilities powered by Microsoft Threat Intelligence, Microsoft Defender Antivirus, and Sensitive Data Discovery to help you discover and mitigate potential threats.

Defender for Storage includes:

- Activity Monitoring
- Sensitive data threat detection (new plan only)
- Malware Scanning (new plan only)

## How it works

Microsoft Defender for Storage uses advanced threat detection capabilities powered by Microsoft Threat Intelligence, Microsoft Defender Antivirus, and Sensitive Data Discovery to help you discover and mitigate potential threats.

### Activity Monitoring

Activity Monitoring provides insights into the operations performed on your storage accounts. It helps you understand the access patterns and operations performed on your storage accounts, and provides insights into the data plane and control plane activities.

### Sensitive data threat detection

Sensitive data threat detection helps you discover and protect sensitive data stored in your storage accounts. It uses advanced machine learning models to detect sensitive data patterns and provides recommendations to help you protect your sensitive data.

### Malware Scanning

Malware Scanning helps you detect and mitigate malware threats in your storage accounts. It uses advanced threat detection capabilities powered by Microsoft Defender Antivirus to scan your storage accounts for malware threats and provides recommendations to help you mitigate these threats.

## Pricing


The pricing for Microsoft Defender for Storage is as follows:


| Resource Type |	Resource | Price |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Storage | Microsoft Defender for Storage | €9 per storage account/month6 |
| Storage | Malware Scanning (add-on to Defender for Storage) | €0.135/GB of data scanned |


For more information about pricing, see the [Microsoft Defender for Cloud pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/defender-for-cloud/).


## Conclusion

Microsoft Defender for Storage is a cloud-native security solution that provides advanced threat protection for your Azure Storage accounts. It uses advanced threat detection capabilities powered by Microsoft Threat Intelligence, Microsoft Defender Antivirus, and Sensitive Data Discovery to help you discover and mitigate potential threats. 

For more information about Microsoft Defender for Storage, see the [Overview of Microsoft Defender for Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/defender-for-cloud/defender-for-storage-introduction)


