---
draft: false
date: 2024-04-26
authors:
  - rfernandezdo
categories:
    - DevOps
tags:
    - IaC
    - Terraform
---

# What you need to think about when starting an IaC project ?

Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is a key practice in modern software development that allows you to manage your infrastructure in a declarative manner. With IaC, you can define your infrastructure using code, which can be version-controlled, tested, and deployed automatically. This approach brings several benefits, such as increased consistency, repeatability, and scalability.

When starting an IaC project, there are several key considerations you need to keep in mind to ensure its success. In this article, we will discuss some of the key things you should think about when embarking on an IaC project.

## 1. **Define Your Goals**

Before you start writing any code, it's essential to define your goals for the IaC project. What are you trying to achieve with IaC? Are you looking to automate the provisioning of infrastructure, improve consistency, or increase scalability? By clearly defining your goals, you can ensure that your IaC project is aligned with your organization's objectives.

Some examples: 

- Automate the provisioning of infrastructure
- Improve consistency and repeatability
- Increase scalability and reduce manual effort
- Enhance security and compliance
- Enable faster development and deployment cycles


## 2. **Select the Right Tools**

Choosing the right tools is crucial for the success of your IaC project. There are several IaC tools available, such as Terraform, Ansible, and AWS CloudFormation, each with its strengths and weaknesses. Consider factors such as ease of use, scalability, and integration with your existing tools when selecting an IaC tool.

Some examples:

- Terraform: A popular IaC tool that allows you to define your infrastructure using a declarative configuration language.
- Ansible: A configuration management tool that can also be used for IaC.
- AWS CloudFormation: A service provided by AWS that allows you to define your infrastructure using JSON or YAML templates.
- Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates: A service provided by Azure that allows you to define your infrastructure using JSON templates.
- Bicep: A domain-specific language for defining Azure resources that compiles to ARM templates.
- Pulumi: A tool that allows you to define your infrastructure using familiar programming languages such as Python, JavaScript, and Go.
- Chef: A configuration management tool that can also be used for IaC.

## 3. **Design Your Infrastructure**

When designing your infrastructure, think about how you want to structure your code. Consider using modular designs that allow you to reuse code across different projects. Define your infrastructure in a way that is easy to understand and maintain, and follow best practices for code organization.

## 4. **Version Control Your Code**

Version control is a fundamental practice in software development, and it is equally important for IaC projects. By using version control systems such as Git, you can track changes to your infrastructure code, collaborate with team members, and roll back changes if needed. Make sure to follow best practices for version control, such as using descriptive commit messages and branching strategies.

Some examples:

- Use Git for version control
- Use branching strategies like Microsoft Flow or GitHub Flow to manage your codebase
- Use pull requests for code reviews
- Automate your CI/CD pipelines to run tests and deploy changes
- Use tags to mark releases or milestones


## 5. **Automate Testing**

Testing is an essential part of any software development project, and IaC is no exception. Automating your tests can help you catch errors early in the development process and ensure that your infrastructure code is working as expected. Consider using tools such as Terraform's built-in testing framework or third-party testing tools to automate your tests.

Some examples:

- Use Terraform's built-in testing framework to write unit tests for your infrastructure code
- Use tools like Terratest or Kitchen-Terraform to write integration tests for your infrastructure code
- Use static code analysis tools to check for common errors and best practices in your infrastructure code, like Terraform's `terraform validate` command, or tools like `tfsec` or `checkov`.
- Use linting tools to enforce coding standards and style guidelines in your infrastructure code, like Terraform's `terraform fmt` command, or tools like `tflint` or `checkov`.
- Use security scanning tools to identify potential security vulnerabilities in your infrastructure code.

## 6. **Implement Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)**

CI/CD pipelines are a key component of modern software development practices, and they are equally important for IaC projects. By implementing CI/CD pipelines, you can automate the testing, building, and deployment of your infrastructure code, reducing the risk of errors and speeding up the development process. Consider using tools such as Github or Azure DevOps to set up your CI/CD pipelines.

 Use tools like Terraform Cloud, Azure DevOps, or Github Actions to automate your CI/CD pipelines.

## 7. **Monitor and Maintain Your Infrastructure**

Once your IaC project is up and running, it's essential to monitor and maintain your infrastructure. Implement monitoring solutions that allow you to track the health and performance of your infrastructure, and set up alerts to notify you of any issues. Regularly review and update your infrastructure code to ensure that it remains up-to-date and secure.



By keeping these key considerations in mind when starting an IaC project, you can set yourself up for success and ensure that your infrastructure is managed efficiently and effectively. IaC is a powerful practice that can help you automate and scale your infrastructure, and by following best practices, you can maximize the benefits of this approach.


